[Music]
hi mystery recap here today i'm going to
explain an american psychological
thriller film called shutter island
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
[Music]
in 1954 u.s marshal edward teddy daniels
meets his new partner chuck alley in a
ship they are on their way to the
ashcliff hospital for the criminally
insane on shutter island
the duo is there to investigate the
disappearance of a highly dangerous
patient
rachel solando they are welcomed by the
chief security officer
the ashcliff hospital consists of three
wards ward a nbr for men and women
respectively whilst ward sees where the
most mentally ill patients
admission to ward c is restricted for
everyone
they meet the lead psychiatrist of the
hospital dr john colley
he informs the marshals about the case
they were called to investigate
a patient named rachel solando has
recently disappeared from the hospital
rachel had killed all three of her
children by drowning them in a lake near
her house
she had then brought them inside set
them on the chairs and had a meal with
them
she still believes that her children are
alive she is highly delusional
rachel's mind has created a false
reality to escape the guilt of killing
her own children
she has created an elaborated story
about the asylum being her house and
berkshires
giving everyone around her a role to
play in her fantasy
according to her the workers of the
asylum or her delivery men
milkmen and postal workers the doctor
then takes them to check rachel's room
to search for clues
the only window in the room is bars and
the doors are always locked from the
outside
they have no clue as to how she
disappeared it is as if she evaporated
straight through the walls
teddy somehow finds a tiny note she had
left it says the law of four
who is 67 no one in the room knows what
the note means
teddy suspects one of the staffs has
helped rachel run away
he asked dr kali for the staff's
information but the doctor is hesitant
teddy is now doubtful of his behavior
they then set off to investigate
outdoors but do not find any clue about
her
while investigating there the island
lighthouse and caves below the rocky
mountains catch teddy's eye
back at the hospital dr kali finally
agrees for a group interview
the duo interviews the staff member but
they do not get any useful information
about rachel's escape
however one of the nurses reveals that
rachel's primary psychiatrist
dr lester sheehan held a group
discussion before her disappearance
so they demand to meet him however dr
colley reveals that dr lester has left
the island for a vacation immediately
after rachel solando disappeared
that night the doctors refused to
provide teddy with the files about the
staff's information
this agitates teddy so he bluffs about
wanting to quit the case
at night teddy dreams of his wife
delores chanal
delores had died in a fire in the dream
she tells him that rachel is on the
island
she adds that a man named andrew lattis
is there too before burning into ashes
the next day teddy interrogates the
patients who attended a therapy session
with rachel
prior to her disappearance one of them
writes a secret note on teddy's notepad
that says run
teddy asks every patient about a guy
named andrew lattis
however every patient seems to get
nervous hearing his name
no one admits to knowing andrew teddy
suspects that all the patients have been
coached to hide a dark secret
when asked by chuck he tells him that
andrew was the maintenance man who
worked at the apartment he and his wife
lived in a few years back
in fact andrew started the fire that his
wife died in
teddy reveals that he has specifically
picked this case because he knew that
andrew is now a patient at ashcliffe
hospital
he wants to have revenge teddy starts to
get severe migraine headaches
he hallucinates his experiences as a us
army soldier during the liberation of
dachau
including reprisals against the guards
in his hallucination
he sees several men he is killed in a
heap of dead bodies
he particularly always looks at the
corpse of a little girl in that heap
in the evening teddy and chuck go to
investigate the island itself
but because of a hurricane they get
stuck in a deserted house
there teddy tells him about a man named
george noyce who used to be a patient of
the asylum
george had pled to an electric chair
rather than being sent back to the
asylum
teddy speculates it is because the
asylum is conducting some kind of
experiments on the patients
one of the reasons he took this case was
to collect evidence to show the world
the asylum's real motive he thinks that
the experiments take place on ward c
so andrew lattis must also be there when
they get back to the hospital
both are given new clothes in a meeting
teddy hears dr colley talk about the 66
patients of the hospital
he figures that who is 67 written on
rachel's note is her asking about the
67th patient of the hospital
but dr colley dismisses his claims and
reveals that rachel solando has already
been found
shocked the marshals go to see her and
rightfully so she is sitting on her bed
she was found by the officers on top of
the lighthouse
rachel mistakes teddy for her dead
husband and suddenly becomes very angry
when he gets out of there teddy gets
severe migraine headaches
his hallucinations get worse and he sees
himself in front of piles of dead bodies
but this time the little girl is lying
with rachel's dead body
she tells him that he should have saved
her he then sees andrew lattis who
apologizes to him for causing the fire
that killed his wife
next a bloodied rachel is with her dead
children
he helps her take them out to the lake
he suddenly wakes up from the dream
then teddy's wife comes in through the
door to tell him that andrew ladis is
not dead
she wants teddy to find him and then
kill him teddy wakes up in the morning
and realizes that it was all a dream
the following day all the electric
security system fails due to the storm
giving chuck and teddy a chance to go to
the infamous ward sea
there teddy meets george noyce a patient
in solitary confinement
george tells him about the experiments
going on in the lighthouse
he claims that the doctors are
experimenting on patients some of whom
are lobotomized
the officials of the hospital knew all
this time of teddy's plan to expose them
in fact they knowingly appointed him for
the job
according to george everyone on the
island including chuck
is in an elaborate plan to declare teddy
a patient of the hospital and get him to
the lighthouse
teddy now believes that since lattice is
not in ward c he is definitely in the
lighthouse
later teddy and chuck move towards the
lighthouse to investigate it
they get into a little argument midway
so they go on different ways
teddy comes across a dead end so he goes
back to where chuck was
only to find his dead body on the ground
down the cliff but when he goes down to
check
chuck has disappeared then teddy finds a
cave
inside it is a woman she introduces
herself as the real rachel solando
rachel used to be a psychiatrist at
ashcliff hospital
but when she got to know about the
illegal experiments done by the hospital
she protested so she was falsely accused
of being insane and was admitted into
the hospital
but rachel had somehow managed to run
away from there and hide in the tiny
cave
everyone on the island knows about the
experiments the asylum conducts a
surgery on its patients called the
trans-orbital lobotomy
where they electrically shock the
patient pull out some nerves fiber from
the eyes
according to her teddy won't get away
alive from the island
the next morning teddy goes back to the
hospital he asked dr colley about chuck
but shockingly paulie doesn't remember
him in fact
every evidence of chuck's existence is
gone teddy is now distressed
he believes that this is an attempt to
make him look crazy he plans to distract
the staff by burning a car to run away
to the lighthouse
the explosion successfully distracts
everyone and teddy swims to the
lighthouse
he threatens a guard and manages to go
on top of it
he finally arrives in the lighthouse she
tries to figure out what experiment is
carried out here
when he opens the last room there is no
sort of experiment going on as he had
assumed
dr kali sits in the middle of the room
on his desk teddy confronts him about
the real rachel salando
but dr kali is weirdly calm he tells
teddy that he has been a patient of the
hospital for two years now
teddy thinks that the doctor wants to
convince him that he is insane to hold
him on the island
but dr khali has all the proof teddy's
real name is andrew
lattis and he is an extremely delusional
patient of the ashcliff hospital
andrew is in fact the 67th patient of
the hospital and the most dangerous
patient
incarcerated in ward c for murdering his
manic depressive wife
dr kali shows him that the names edward
daniels and rachel solando
are just anagrams of the names andrew
lattis and delores chanal
with the same 13 letters andrew has
created another self
edward teddy daniels to avoid the guilt
of his horrendous crime
and to go along with the character of
teddy he has also created a false
reality in his brain that justifies
teddy being on this island
rachel solando never existed it was a
product of andrew's mind
the past week doctors had decided to let
andrew play out his fantasy in order to
bring him back to reality
this is his last chance at sanity after
which he will be lobotomized as per the
court's order
then chuck comes into the room
introduces himself as dr lester sheehan
in reality chuck has been andrew's
primary doctor for two years now
hearing the truth andrew gets agitated
and attacks dr lester
dr colley calms him by showing him the
pictures of his three dead children
one of them is the little girl who is
always in andrew's dreams
he finally calms down he goes
unconscious and begins to have a
flashback about what actually happened
to him and his wife
dolores in his flashback we see andrew
who came back home from work that day
he was surprised to see dolores had
killed all three of their children by
drowning them in the lake
andrew blamed himself for not saving the
kids so he shot his wife dead for
murdering the children
when he wakes up he is back to his
senses he admits that rachel solando and
teddy daniels are just characters he
made up
teddy's wife had drowned their children
in the lake near their cabin and because
of this
he had killed his wife the doctors are
satisfied to see he has come back
but is scared because he has relapsed
before some time later
dr lester and andrew are chatting when
he refers to the doctor as chuck again
the doctors are disappointed the warden
gestures to the orderlies
and andrew is taken away to be
lobotomized andrew asks dr lester if it
would be worse to live as a monster or
to die as a good man
a stun lester calls andrew teddy but he
does not respond to the name
the movie ends as we see andrew
peacefully going with the officials to
be lobotomized
now for the explanation of the movie the
whole movie is from the point of a
mentally ill patient
andrew ladies who thinks he is a u.s
marshal investigating a case
andrew's wife dolores chanel had always
been mentally ill
but he loved her too much to let her go
one day when andrew came back home from
work
dolores had killed all three of their
children by drowning them in the lake
andrew blamed himself for not saving the
kids this was the reason the girl in his
dreams told him that he should have
saved her
he shot his wife dead for murdering the
children but andrew's mind could not
handle the grief and guilt of his
family's death
so he painted himself as edward teddy
daniels in reality
the name edward daniels is just andrew
lattis with mismatched letters
and so is rachel solando to dolores
chanal
in his fantasy andrew is still a us
marshal and his reasoning for being on
the island is that he is there to
investigate the disappearance of rachel
solando
while actually rachel is just a nurse of
the hospital
similarly andrew gave a role to everyone
around him to match his fantasy
he painted his doctor lester as his
partner chuck
him finding the real rachel salando in
the cave was just a part of his
hallucinations
at the beginning of the movie we see
teddy tell chuck that dolores had died
in an apartment fire
this is because she had burned their
apartment building once before
two weeks prior andrew had beaten up
another ward sea patient named george
noyce
so the officials had ordered to
lobotomize him dr colley's last resort
to bring andrew back to reality was to
let him play the role of teddy for a
week
hence the whole hospital participated in
andrew's fantasy
but they are only able to bring him back
to his senses for a few hours
however at the end of the story andrew
doesn't react to being called teddy and
peacefully goes to be lobotomized
suggesting that andrew had come back to
his senses but he did not want to live
as a monster anymore
that's my explanation for the movie
shutter island
subscribe for more videos like this turn
on notifications
and leave a like to help the channel out
thank you for watching